**Adaboost VQC on hardware**

In this project I attempt to replicate the results of one of my favorite paper's on Variational Quantum Classifiers(VQC) and run the trained modules on real IBM Quantum hardware. The paper creates a VQC circuit for classifying four odd numbers (1,3,5,7) in MNIST, a large dataset with images of handwritten numbers from 1-9. The circuit uses 6 qubits with amplitude encoding to put the qubits in a superposition of the pixels in the images of the dataset (8x8 pixels = 64), since the number of states that can be encoded in n qubits is n^2 (6^2 = 64). Afterwards, a parametrized circuit with Rx and Rz rotations followed by CNOT gates provides 6x3 parameters (θ) per each layer. Finally the two last qubits are measured, and their results correspond to one of the four possible classifications (1,3,5,7). 

The paper proceeds to introduce CNOT gate noise and explores the Baggins and Adaboost ensemble-learning methods to mitigate the result errors from this noise. In my code I only explored Adaboost which is the more complex and better performing of the two methods. The explanation for Adaboost can be found on pages 5 & 6 of the paper, but I made a slight modification to the method by resampling the training data according to the weights of the samples instead of using a weighted loss function, since the Adam optimizer doesn't seem to work with weighted losses and just ignored the weights. 

Since the noise added to their models is artificial, the goal of this project is to see how well Adaboost performs on real QPU's of our time. I do this by training my modules in a noiseless ideal simulation, which hopefully resembles a module trained iteratively on a real quantum computer. I then test these modules on a real quantum computer and assess their performance. Thus,this project is divided into two files:
1. [VQC Training and testing no noise](MNIST_VQC_Training.ipynb): Trains and tests the VQC with no noise and saves the module weights as well as the Adaboost modules' weights. 
2. [VQC Testing on Hardware](VQC_Hardware_testing.ipynb): Tests the modules trained with no noise on real IBM Quantum Hardware. 

The paper uses Adam optimizer to optimize these parameters in the module trained with 1500 optimization iterations. Using around 7 layers, they achieve accuracies around 93% on test and train. I was able to achieve accuracies of 97% using Pennylane circuits ran analytically, which I presume is the method used in the paper. The greater accuracy may be associated to the dataset I was using, or to the slightly different simulation method which for a rough replication will suffice, as perfect replication is not the goal. Three shallow circuits with 3 layers each were chosen for the Adaboost method, for better performance the count of the circuits can be increased. 

I tested the modules obtained from 1. on the test dataset on real quantum hardware using SamplerV2 on Qiskit with 1024 shots. This gave me an accuracy of 78.5% on the 7 layer module and an accuracy of 83.7% using Adaboost, which is an improvement of +5.2%. This was a smaller improvement than anticipated based on the findings of the paper.

References Li, Q., Huang, Y., Hou, X., Li, Y., Wang, X., & Bayat, A. (2023). Ensemble-learning error mitigation for variational quantum shallow-circuit classifiers. arXiv:2301.12707.

Paper link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.12707 
